# MFA_Selongatus
Cyanobacterial strains that are capable of secreting sucrose to support growth of heterotrophs in a co-culture system have gained significant interest from the biotechnology community. Efforts on strain development and process optimization have taken place since a decade ago, and technology has been advanced significantly. However, most efforts have been focused on investigating local pathways that are closely related to sucrose biosynthesis and secretion, and the global intracellular metabolism, which is crucial for detecting bottlenecks in the network, has not yet been studied. In this study, we investigate the global metabolic fluxes in the sucrose-secreting (cscB+) strain versus the wild type. Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 synthesizes sucrose under NaCl stress as a means of coping with osmotic pressure, while overexpression of cscB, a sucrose transporter, confers the secretion of sucrose out of cells. We use two complementary approaches - 13C metabolic flux analysis (MFA) and Genome Scale Modeling (GSM) to elucidate the difference of intracellular resource allocation by quantifying metabolic fluxes between these strains. 13C-MFA uses 13C-labelled compound as tracer to displace the 12C atom of intracellular metabolites (total XX), and through tracking the labelling status of these metabolite along a time course and computational modeling, the intracellular metabolic fluxes can be quantitatively mapped. 13C-MFA can be applied to decipher network regulations and hence guide metabolic engineering. Constrain-based GSM combine genome-scale network reconstructions with detailed biochemical and physiological information to provide in silico estimation of intracellular metabolic flux under a condition-specific set of constraints. We performed 13C-MFA and GSM for three cyanobacterial cultures – [wild type], [wild type + NaCl], and [cscB+ + NaCl] - under photoautotrophic conditions. For 13C-MFA, we use 13C-labelled bicarbonate as tracer, and use GC-MS and LC-MS/MS to quantify labeling trajectories of more than a dozen of intracellular metabolites along a time course. We use INCA software to simulate the flux and generate the quantitative flux map. For GSM, we evaluated the solutions space using random sampling. This unbiased assessment provides a distribution of all possible flux distributions of the network at given conditions. Additionally, we evaluated osmotic stress conditions by increasing the salts concentration five times from 28 mM to 130 mM. Predicted flux distributions across the solution space were compared for all three conditions, showing significant changes in transport and carbohydrate metabolism. 
